# XML Spritesheet Importer

A simple **editor script** for importing spritesheets images into a **Godot**
project by reading and parsing their xml data file.

The script allows to switch the spritesheet image and will correctly update any
scene or element using it.

This importer was written to work with those files generated by the **Shoebox**
app, but it can work with any xml file that uses the same structure.

**[Shoebox Download](https://renderhjs.net/shoebox/)**

Shoebox is an **Adobe Air**, so you will need to install it first:

**[Adobe Air Download](https://get.adobe.com/es/air/)**

## Demo
The demo project contains a simple test scene with elements like a TileMap,
sprites, and instanced scenes, that uses an imported spritesheet.

This repo includes two folders with different spritesheets so you can switch
them inside the project and test the script.

## Usage

1) Copy the **XMLSpritesheetImporter.gd** script anywhere into your Godot
project.

2) Create a **res://image/** folder and put your **sprites.png** and
**sprites.xml** files inside. The scripts **REQUIRES** this folder and the files
to be named exactly like these.

3) Open the script in the Godot editor.

4) Press **ctrl + shift + x** to run it.

## Results

The script will create an **AtlasTexture** in resource form (.tres) for every
sprite and will organize them into a folder structure according with a naming
convention for the individual sprites:

It will parse the **name** attribute of every xml **SubTexture** element like
this:

Example:

- **"obj_crate.png"**

Will create a texture resource on path: **res://obj/texture/crate.tres**

- **"fx_explosion_explosion1.png"**

Will create a texture on path: **res://obj/explosion/texture/explosion1.tres**


### Tiles and tilesets

If the **name** attribute contains the word **tile**, it will treat the final
texture as part of a tileset and will proceed to create the set as well:

- **"tile_grass1.png"**

Will create a texture on path: **res://tile/texture/grass1.tres**

**Also**, it will create a **tileset** on: **res://tile/tileset.tres**,
including the tile.

#### Named tilesets

- **"tile_world_sand.png"**

Will create a texture on path: **res://tile/world/texture/grass1.tres**

And it will create the tileset: **res://tile/world/world_tileset.tres**,
including the tile.

## Recommendations

The parser reads the **underscore** symbol (**"_"**) in the sprites' names as a
folder separator when generating the paths, being the last substring the name of
the sprite as such.

So, it's recommended to use camel case for the final sprite name, example:

- **"folder_subfolder1_subfolder2_spriteName.png"**

## Tweaking

The script is pretty simple, and with the use of the **XMLParser**, **Directory**,
**ResourceSaver**, **ResourceLoader** classes, it can be modified to turn it
as simple or complex as needed.




